this week the US and UK have again hit
houthi Targets in Yemen the Iran back
group have been targeting ships they
claim are linked to Israel and the west
and protest against the war in Gaza BBC
Persian Middle East correspondent nefis
gonad has been given rare access to US
Navy warships that have been on patrol
in the Red Sea now these ships are meant
to be acting as a deterrent and as a
show of support for Israel after the
October 7th Hamas attacks she sent us
this report from the Eastern
Mediterranean
surveying the Seas and ready to strike
back in the relative calm of the
Mediterranean these US Marines are
primed for action in the Middle
East
you they have just returned from the Red
Sea when they were the First Responders
to houti attacks on commercial
shipping the crew of the ussan warship
were on their way home from patrolling
the Persian Gulf when Hamas attacked
Israel on October 6 7 and The War Began
in
Gaza they were rapidly diverted towards
Israel a Sha of power and a message to
Iran and its
proxies man I think there's always a
risk of miscalculation but our presence
matters and we serve as a
deterrent prepared to
respond in support of our national
security interest or the interest of our
allies and partners
but the houis say they will continue to
Target ships they claim are linked to
Israel and the West for as long as
civilians are being killed in Gaza and
so far the group remain undeterred by
us-led strikes on some of their military
bases in
Yemen Captain Earl erhart expected
nothing like this when he left Georgia
last
July being stationed in the Red Sea
there was a lot of traffic flying near
uh over and then towards us from the
houthis and those oneway attack drones
it was definitely a new experience
didn't think I was going to be doing
that when we launched out on the
deployment for
sure destroyers like this are being used
to Shield the batan and other boats by
shooting down any
threats we are taken down into its
Command Center for ass
simulation 1 2
3 command rooms like this are now at the
sharp edge of the US involvement in the
Middle East and Beyond they are the
warships eyes and ears tracking friendly
vessels identifying incoming threats and
initiating rapid response against the
attack for many in the Middle East
including forces aligned with Iran an
American presence is always
provocative the US says it doesn't want
any further escalation but while the war
in Gaza goes on these crew won't know
when they will be heading
home naav BBC News in the Eastern
Mediterranean